Name;Source;Text;Notes
JTRAIN98;Source: This is a data set I created many years ago intended as an update to the files JTRAIN2 and JTRAIN3. While the data were partly generated by me, the data attributes are similar to data sets used to evaluate job training programs.;Used in Text: 101-102, 248, 601;Notes: The response variables, earn98 and unem98, both have discreteness: the former is a corner solutions (takes on the value zero and then a range of strictly positive values) and the latter is binary. One could use these in an exercise using methods in Chapter 17. unem98 can be used in a probit or logit model, earn98 in a Tobit model, or in Poisson regression (without assuming, of course, that the Poisson distribution is correct).
LABSUP;Source:  The subset of data for black or Hispanic women used in J.A. Angrist and W.E. Evans (1998);Used in Text: pages 530-531;Notes: This example can promote an interesting discussion of instrument validity, and in particular, how a variable that is beyond our control – for example, whether the first two children have the same gender – can, nevertheless, affect subsequent economic choices. Students are asked to think about such issues in Computer Exercise C13 in Chapter 15. A more egregious version of this mistake would be to treat a variable such as age as a suitable instrument because it is beyond our control: clearly age has a direct effect on many economic outcomes that would play the role of the dependent variable.
NCAA_RPI;Source: Data on NCAA men’s basketball teams, collected by Weizhao Sun for a senior seminar project in sports economics at Michigan State University, Spring 2017. He used various sources, including www.espn.com and www.teamrankings.com/ncaa-basketball/rpi-ranking/rpi-rating-by-team.;Used in Text: not used;Notes: This is a nice example of how multiple regression analysis can be used to determine whether rankings compiled by experts – the so-called pre-season RPI in this case – provide additional information beyond what we can obtain from widely available data bases. A simple and interesting question is whether, once the previous year’s post-season RPI is controlled for, does the pre-season RPI – which is supposed to add information on recruiting and player development – help to predict performance (such as win percentage or making it to the NCAA men’s basketball tournament). For the binary outcome that indicates making it to the NCAA tournament, a probit or logit model can be used for courses that introduce more advanced methods. There are some other interesting variables, such as coaching experience, that can be included, too. 
SCHOOL93_98;Source: L.E. Papke (2005), “The Effects of Spending on Test Pass Rates: Evidence from Michigan,” Journal of Public Economics 89, 821-839.;Used in Text: page 491;Notes: This is closer to the data actually used in the Papke paper as it is at the school (building) level. It is unbalanced because data on scores and some of the spending and other variables is missing for some schools. While the usual RE and FE methods can be applied directly, obtaining the correlated random effects version of the Hausman test is more advance. Computer Exercise 17 in Chapter 14 walks the reader through it.
